src/gcc/config/mips/constraints-maven.md, before:

;;========================================================================
;; constraints-maven.md : Constraint definitions for MIPS
;;========================================================================
;; Copyright (C) 2006, 2007, 2008 
;; Free Software Foundation, Inc.
;; This file is part of GCC.
;;
;; GCC is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
;; the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
;; Software Foundation; either version 3, or (at your option) any later
;; version.
;;
;; GCC is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
;; ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
;; FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License
;; for more details.
;;
;; You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
;; along with GCC; see the file COPYING3. If not see
;; <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

;;------------------------------------------------------------------------
;; Register constraints
;;------------------------------------------------------------------------

(define_register_constraint "d" "BASE_REG_CLASS"
  "An address register. This is equivalent to @code{r} unless generating
   MIPS16 code.")

(define_register_constraint "t" "T_REG"
  "@internal")

(define_register_constraint "f" "TARGET_HARD_FLOAT ? FP_REGS : NO_REGS"
  "A floating-point register (if available).")

(define_register_constraint "h" "NO_REGS"
  "Formerly the @code{hi} register. This constraint is no longer
  supported.")

(define_register_constraint "l" "TARGET_BIG_ENDIAN ? MD1_REG : MD0_REG"
  "The @code{lo} register. Use this register to store values that are no
   bigger than a word.")

(define_register_constraint "x" "MD_REGS"
  "The concatenated @code{hi} and @code{lo} registers. Use this register
   to store doubleword values.")

(define_register_constraint "b" "ALL_REGS"
  "@internal")

;; MIPS16 code always calls through a MIPS16 register; see
;; mips_emit_call_insn for details.
(define_register_constraint "c" 
   "TARGET_MIPS16 ? M16_REGS
                  : TARGET_USE_PIC_FN_ADDR_REG ? PIC_FN_ADDR_REG
                  : GR_REGS"
  "A register suitable for use in an indirect jump. This will always be
   @code{$25} for @option{-mabicalls}.")

(define_register_constraint "e" "LEA_REGS"
  "@internal")

(define_register_constraint "j" "PIC_FN_ADDR_REG"
  "@internal")

;; Don't use this constraint in gcc code! It runs the risk of
;; introducing a spill failure; see tls_get_tp_<mode>.
(define_register_constraint "v" "V1_REG"
  "Register @code{$3}.  Do not use this constraint in new code;
   it is retained only for compatibility with glibc.")

(define_register_constraint "y" "GR_REGS"
  "Equivalent to @code{r}; retained for backwards compatibility.")

(define_register_constraint "z" "ST_REGS"
  "A floating-point condition code register.")

(define_register_constraint "A" "DSP_ACC_REGS"
  "@internal")

(define_register_constraint "a" "ACC_REGS"
  "@internal")

(define_register_constraint "B" "COP0_REGS"
  "@internal")

(define_register_constraint "C" "COP2_REGS"
  "@internal")

(define_register_constraint "D" "COP3_REGS"
  "@internal")

;; Registers that can be used as the target of multiply-accumulate
;; instructions. The core MIPS32 ISA provides a hi/lo madd, but the
;; DSPr2 version allows any accumulator target.
(define_register_constraint "ka" "ISA_HAS_DSPR2 ? ACC_REGS : MD_REGS")

(define_constraint "kf"
  "@internal"
  (match_operand 0 "force_to_mem_operand"))

;; This is a normal rather than a register constraint because we can
;; never use the stack pointer as a reload register.
(define_constraint "ks"
  "@internal"
  (and (match_code "reg")
       (match_test "REGNO(op) == STACK_POINTER_REGNUM")))

;;------------------------------------------------------------------------
;; Integer constraints
;;------------------------------------------------------------------------

(define_constraint "I"
  "A signed 16-bit constant (for arithmetic instructions)."
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "SMALL_OPERAND(ival)")))

(define_constraint "J"
  "Integer zero."
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "ival == 0")))

(define_constraint "K"
  "An unsigned 16-bit constant (for logic instructions)."
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "SMALL_OPERAND_UNSIGNED(ival)")))
 
(define_constraint "L"
  "A signed 32-bit constant in which the lower 16 bits are zero.
   Such constants can be loaded using @code{lui}."
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "LUI_OPERAND(ival)")))

(define_constraint "M"
  "A constant that cannot be loaded using @code{lui}, @code{addiu}
   or @code{ori}."
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "!SMALL_OPERAND(ival)")
       (match_test "!SMALL_OPERAND_UNSIGNED(ival)")
       (match_test "!LUI_OPERAND(ival)")))

(define_constraint "N"
  "A constant in the range -65535 to -1 (inclusive)."
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "ival >= -0xffff && ival < 0")))

(define_constraint "O"
  "A signed 15-bit constant."
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "ival >= -0x4000 && ival < 0x4000")))

(define_constraint "P"
  "A constant in the range 1 to 65535 (inclusive)."
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "ival > 0 && ival < 0x10000")))

;;------------------------------------------------------------------------
;; Floating-point constraints
;;------------------------------------------------------------------------

(define_constraint "G"
  "Floating-point zero."
  (and (match_code "const_double")
       (match_test "op == CONST0_RTX(mode)")))

;;------------------------------------------------------------------------
;; General constraints
;;------------------------------------------------------------------------

(define_constraint "Q"
  "@internal"
  (match_operand 0 "const_arith_operand"))

(define_memory_constraint "R"
  "An address that can be used in a non-macro load or store."
  (and (match_code "mem")
       (match_test "mips_address_insns( XEXP(op, 0), mode, false ) == 1")))

(define_constraint "S"
  "@internal
   A constant call address."
  (and (match_operand 0 "call_insn_operand")
       (match_test "CONSTANT_P(op)")))

(define_constraint "T"
  "@internal
   A constant @code{move_operand} that cannot be safely loaded into
   @code{$25} using @code{la}."
  (and (match_operand 0 "move_operand")
       (match_test "CONSTANT_P(op)")
       (match_test "mips_dangerous_for_la25_p(op)")))

(define_constraint "U"
  "@internal
   A constant @code{move_operand} that can be safely loaded into
   @code{$25} using @code{la}."
  (and (match_operand 0 "move_operand")
       (match_test "CONSTANT_P(op)")
       (match_test "!mips_dangerous_for_la25_p(op)")))

(define_memory_constraint "W"
  "@internal
   A memory address based on a member of @code{BASE_REG_CLASS}. This is
   true for all non-mips16 references (although it can sometimes be
   implicit if @samp{!TARGET_EXPLICIT_RELOCS}). For MIPS16, it excludes
   stack and constant-pool references."
  (and (match_code "mem")
       (match_operand 0 "memory_operand")
       (ior (match_test "!TARGET_MIPS16")
            (and (not (match_operand 0 "stack_operand"))
                 (not (match_test "CONSTANT_P(XEXP(op, 0))"))))))

(define_constraint "YG"
  "@internal
   A vector zero."
  (and (match_code "const_vector")
       (match_test "op == CONST0_RTX(mode)")))

(define_constraint "YA"
  "@internal
   An unsigned 6-bit constant."
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "UIMM6_OPERAND(ival)")))

(define_constraint "YB"
  "@internal
   A signed 10-bit constant."
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "IMM10_OPERAND(ival)")))

Commit message:

unified GPR/FPR  - gcc changes

src/gcc/config/mips/constraints-maven.md, after:

;;========================================================================
;; constraints-maven.md : Constraint definitions for MIPS
;;========================================================================
;; Copyright (C) 2006, 2007, 2008 
;; Free Software Foundation, Inc.
;; This file is part of GCC.
;;
;; GCC is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
;; the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
;; Software Foundation; either version 3, or (at your option) any later
;; version.
;;
;; GCC is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
;; ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
;; FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License
;; for more details.
;;
;; You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
;; along with GCC; see the file COPYING3. If not see
;; <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

;; YUNSUP: changes for the Maven compiler, this port is based on MIPS

;;------------------------------------------------------------------------
;; Register constraints
;;------------------------------------------------------------------------

(define_register_constraint "d" "BASE_REG_CLASS"
  "An address register. This is equivalent to @code{r} unless generating
   MIPS16 code.")

(define_register_constraint "t" "T_REG"
  "@internal")

;; YUNSUP: changed the f constraint to use general purpose registers
;; (define_register_constraint "f" "TARGET_HARD_FLOAT ? FP_REGS : NO_REGS"
;;   "A floating-point register (if available).")
(define_register_constraint "f" "GR_REGS"
  "A floating-point register (if available).")

(define_register_constraint "h" "NO_REGS"
  "Formerly the @code{hi} register. This constraint is no longer
  supported.")

(define_register_constraint "l" "TARGET_BIG_ENDIAN ? MD1_REG : MD0_REG"
  "The @code{lo} register. Use this register to store values that are no
   bigger than a word.")

(define_register_constraint "x" "MD_REGS"
  "The concatenated @code{hi} and @code{lo} registers. Use this register
   to store doubleword values.")

(define_register_constraint "b" "ALL_REGS"
  "@internal")

;; MIPS16 code always calls through a MIPS16 register; see
;; mips_emit_call_insn for details.
(define_register_constraint "c" 
   "TARGET_MIPS16 ? M16_REGS
                  : TARGET_USE_PIC_FN_ADDR_REG ? PIC_FN_ADDR_REG
                  : GR_REGS"
  "A register suitable for use in an indirect jump. This will always be
   @code{$25} for @option{-mabicalls}.")

(define_register_constraint "e" "LEA_REGS"
  "@internal")

(define_register_constraint "j" "PIC_FN_ADDR_REG"
  "@internal")

;; Don't use this constraint in gcc code! It runs the risk of
;; introducing a spill failure; see tls_get_tp_<mode>.
(define_register_constraint "v" "V1_REG"
  "Register @code{$3}.  Do not use this constraint in new code;
   it is retained only for compatibility with glibc.")

(define_register_constraint "y" "GR_REGS"
  "Equivalent to @code{r}; retained for backwards compatibility.")

;; YUNSUP: changed the z contraint to use general purpose registers
;; (define_register_constraint "z" "ST_REGS"
;;   "A floating-point condition code register.")
(define_register_constraint "z" "GR_REGS"
  "A floating-point condition code register.")

(define_register_constraint "A" "DSP_ACC_REGS"
  "@internal")

(define_register_constraint "a" "ACC_REGS"
  "@internal")

(define_register_constraint "B" "COP0_REGS"
  "@internal")

(define_register_constraint "C" "COP2_REGS"
  "@internal")

(define_register_constraint "D" "COP3_REGS"
  "@internal")

;; Registers that can be used as the target of multiply-accumulate
;; instructions. The core MIPS32 ISA provides a hi/lo madd, but the
;; DSPr2 version allows any accumulator target.
(define_register_constraint "ka" "ISA_HAS_DSPR2 ? ACC_REGS : MD_REGS")

(define_constraint "kf"
  "@internal"
  (match_operand 0 "force_to_mem_operand"))

;; This is a normal rather than a register constraint because we can
;; never use the stack pointer as a reload register.
(define_constraint "ks"
  "@internal"
  (and (match_code "reg")
       (match_test "REGNO(op) == STACK_POINTER_REGNUM")))

;;------------------------------------------------------------------------
;; Integer constraints
;;------------------------------------------------------------------------

(define_constraint "I"
  "A signed 16-bit constant (for arithmetic instructions)."
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "SMALL_OPERAND(ival)")))

(define_constraint "J"
  "Integer zero."
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "ival == 0")))

(define_constraint "K"
  "An unsigned 16-bit constant (for logic instructions)."
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "SMALL_OPERAND_UNSIGNED(ival)")))
 
(define_constraint "L"
  "A signed 32-bit constant in which the lower 16 bits are zero.
   Such constants can be loaded using @code{lui}."
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "LUI_OPERAND(ival)")))

(define_constraint "M"
  "A constant that cannot be loaded using @code{lui}, @code{addiu}
   or @code{ori}."
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "!SMALL_OPERAND(ival)")
       (match_test "!SMALL_OPERAND_UNSIGNED(ival)")
       (match_test "!LUI_OPERAND(ival)")))

(define_constraint "N"
  "A constant in the range -65535 to -1 (inclusive)."
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "ival >= -0xffff && ival < 0")))

(define_constraint "O"
  "A signed 15-bit constant."
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "ival >= -0x4000 && ival < 0x4000")))

(define_constraint "P"
  "A constant in the range 1 to 65535 (inclusive)."
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "ival > 0 && ival < 0x10000")))

;;------------------------------------------------------------------------
;; Floating-point constraints
;;------------------------------------------------------------------------

(define_constraint "G"
  "Floating-point zero."
  (and (match_code "const_double")
       (match_test "op == CONST0_RTX(mode)")))

;;------------------------------------------------------------------------
;; General constraints
;;------------------------------------------------------------------------

(define_constraint "Q"
  "@internal"
  (match_operand 0 "const_arith_operand"))

(define_memory_constraint "R"
  "An address that can be used in a non-macro load or store."
  (and (match_code "mem")
       (match_test "mips_address_insns( XEXP(op, 0), mode, false ) == 1")))

(define_constraint "S"
  "@internal
   A constant call address."
  (and (match_operand 0 "call_insn_operand")
       (match_test "CONSTANT_P(op)")))

(define_constraint "T"
  "@internal
   A constant @code{move_operand} that cannot be safely loaded into
   @code{$25} using @code{la}."
  (and (match_operand 0 "move_operand")
       (match_test "CONSTANT_P(op)")
       (match_test "mips_dangerous_for_la25_p(op)")))

(define_constraint "U"
  "@internal
   A constant @code{move_operand} that can be safely loaded into
   @code{$25} using @code{la}."
  (and (match_operand 0 "move_operand")
       (match_test "CONSTANT_P(op)")
       (match_test "!mips_dangerous_for_la25_p(op)")))

(define_memory_constraint "W"
  "@internal
   A memory address based on a member of @code{BASE_REG_CLASS}. This is
   true for all non-mips16 references (although it can sometimes be
   implicit if @samp{!TARGET_EXPLICIT_RELOCS}). For MIPS16, it excludes
   stack and constant-pool references."
  (and (match_code "mem")
       (match_operand 0 "memory_operand")
       (ior (match_test "!TARGET_MIPS16")
            (and (not (match_operand 0 "stack_operand"))
                 (not (match_test "CONSTANT_P(XEXP(op, 0))"))))))

(define_constraint "YG"
  "@internal
   A vector zero."
  (and (match_code "const_vector")
       (match_test "op == CONST0_RTX(mode)")))

(define_constraint "YA"
  "@internal
   An unsigned 6-bit constant."
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "UIMM6_OPERAND(ival)")))

(define_constraint "YB"
  "@internal
   A signed 10-bit constant."
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "IMM10_OPERAND(ival)")))
